[[Segmentation and Access Control]]
In order to limit the scope of any type of security event, it may be useful to segment your network into smaller pieces. This might be through physical segmentation, where you are physically separating devices. It might be logical segmentation. We often see that in network switches with VLANs, or virtual segmentation, which is very common in cloud-based or virtual machine architectures. Sometimes we separate these systems to get the best possible performance, especially if it's a high-bandwidth with applications. We might dedicate a single subnet just for this high-bandwidth application, so that it can run as efficiently as possible, and anything that's done by any other user on the network would not have any effect on the throughput of this app. Sometime our segmentation is very strategic, especially from a security perspective. For example, you might have a rule that says users should not be communicating directly to a database server. Instead, they should be communicating to an application, and the application server should be communicating to the database server. In this situation, there might be a firewall or some type of control list that would limit who might have access to a particular server. And some segmentation is required, perhaps due to a mandate or set of policies and procedures. For example, if you're running PCI compliance, that's the payment card industry, which means you're protecting credit card numbers, you might be required to keep the credit card information completely separate from any other part of your network. It can be easy to implement this separation using an ACL or access control list. This provides a way to allow or disallow traffic through your network, operating systems, or other technologies. So, you might have a grouping of different categories, like source IP address, destination IP address, port numbers, time of day, or any other detail that you can use to control traffic through a device. This access may be all based on IP address, where certain IP addresses can access other IP addresses, and there may be blocks installed for other ranges of addresses. Or maybe it's based on the user. If it's a regular user, they might not have access, but if you are an administrator or a superuser, you may have the proper access to that service. It's also important when configuring these ACLs that you take all different connections into account. You don't want to create an ACL that would effectively lock you out from building other ACLs in that system. Here's an example of permissions that you might want to allow or disallow using an access control list. For example, you might have a rule that says that Bob can read files on a particular resource, Fred can access the network, and then James can access the network 192.168.1.0/24 using only the TCP ports 80, 443, and 8088. You can see this last control is relatively specific, which allows the administrator to create very granular controls for access. ACLs are also found in our operating systems. If you've ever configured permissions to a particular folder or file that's in an operating system, or you've created groups and added users to those groups, then you've configured an access control list. Another form of segmentation is based on the applications you use themselves. And many operating systems allow you to create an application allow list and deny list. Many organizations will use these lists to ensure that only legitimate applications can be used on those systems, and it would block the use of any other app. This would include blocking uh malicious software, such as Trojan horses, malware, viruses, and others. You would generally set a rule or a security policy that would allow or disallow a particular application to run in that operating system. There are two different philosophies for allow lists and deny lists. You might set up an allow list where nothing runs unless it is specifically approved, which means you would have a relatively restricted list. Only what's on the list is able to run on that system. In other environments, you might have more flexibility with a deny list. Deny list works the opposite of an allow list where nothing that's on that bad list can be executed on that system. That means that everything can run except the things that you have specifically written as being unable to run on that system. A good example of a deny list is the antivirus or anti-malware systems that you're already using, which allow everything to work through your system until it identifies a known bad virus or malware, and then it will block that particular application from working. Windows provides extensive controls for allowing what applications can run and what applications are denied. This can be done with an application hash, where an application can be identified not with its name, but with a very specific hash associated with the application itself. That means if something changes with the application, the hash will no longer match, and it will not apply to this particular rule. Some applications are digitally signed, and so there's a certificate you can reference on who signed this particular app. So, if an application is from Microsoft, Adobe, Google, or any other organization with a signed app, you might set that says, "If it's digitally signed, it's allowed, and if it's not digitally signed, it won't run on the system." Windows also allows you to allow or disallow applications that are running from a very specific area of the drive. And if an application is running from a different directory on that system, you can configure a rule to prevent that application from running. And of course, Windows has the concept of network zones, where you might be on a private network or a public network, and you can set rules inside of Windows that would allow certain applications to work depending on what zone you happen to be located in at that time.

[[Mitigation Techniques]]
Mitigation is the process of reducing the impact of a security event or a potential security event. And in this video, we'll look at some of these mitigation techniques. One great way to stop an attack is well before the attack even happens. And the best way to do this is by patching any known vulnerabilities. This will not only keep your system more secure, but occasionally will also keep your system more stable. Organizations like Microsoft create a series of patches every month that you can then push out to keep all of your systems up to date with the latest security patches. You might also get security patches from application developers or device manufacturers to make sure that those devices are also secured. And you may find that your operating systems at home patch themselves automatically. It's built into the operating system to constantly check to see if new patches are available, and if they are, it will download them and install them without any type of user intervention. In a large organization, however, this might not be an automated process. Instead, the information technology department may test the patches first, and only once they know that they're working properly, do they push them out to everybody else's system. And although some of these patches arrive on regular intervals, there may be times when an emergency patch is pushed out, especially if it's a significant vulnerability and the attackers are actively taking advantage of this unpatched opening. Another way to mitigate these security events is to limit how much data an attacker could get their hands on. Many file systems include encryption as part of the file system itself. It's integrated into the operating system. So, you can select the file or the folder and have the operating system only encrypt that specific piece of data. In Windows, you might see this file level encryption referred to as EFS. That refers to the encrypting file system that is integrated into the Windows operating system. If there are devices that are leaving your building and you're concerned that someone might have access to the storage drives on those systems, you might want to enable full disk encryption or FDE. This will encrypt everything on that storage volume, including the operating system and the user files. In Windows, you can enable this with BitLocker, macOS uses FileVault, and there's other technologies available for almost any operating system. Some applications don't assume that file system or full disk encryption is even in place and will encrypt data itself inside of the application. This ensures that regardless of the type of encryption being used, the application data will always be protected. In order to identify these security events, it's important to have constant monitoring and be able to log all of the information that's occurring on your network. Monitoring can be done using technologies built into switches, routers, and other devices, or you might have a separate sensor that sits external to those devices. Many security devices will include this type of monitoring, so if you're running a firewall or intrusion prevention system or an operating system where authentication is occurring, all of this log information is stored automatically in the operating system. Many times, these logs are spread across many different systems, so it can be useful to have all of those log files consolidated back to one central source. Very often, we use a SIM or security information and event manager to consolidate all of those logs and provide a central source for creating reports and monitoring data. If you look around at the rights and permissions assigned to users in your company, you may find that there are very few of them with administrative access. That's because most organizations use the best practice of least privilege. This means that the rights and permissions assigned to a user are limited to the specific job role for that individual. They don't need additional rights and permissions if their job doesn't require them to have those permissions. The best case scenario would be that no user runs with administrative permissions. If you need additional rights, you can elevate permissions temporarily and then bring those rights back down to normal permissions when you're done. If malicious software or an attack occurred on that particular user's account, the access would be limited to only what that user can see. This can limit the scope of an attack or a data breach, and it could be a significant difference between an attacker gaining access to a little bit of data and all of the company's data. Another good idea is to enforce the configuration of the systems that are connecting to your network. We would commonly do this during a login process and perform a posture assessment. This checks your system to see if you're running the latest version of the operating system, if you've installed the latest patches, if your antivirus is up-to-date, and checks for other security features as well. This might check to see if you're running the latest version of an operating system including all of the most recent patches. This might also check for the EDR or endpoint detection and response version. Make sure you're up-to-date with the latest signatures. This might check to see if your local firewall and EDR are configured and turned on properly, and it might even check for a certificate to see if your system that's connecting is really one that is trusted by the organization. If any of those settings are not up-to-date with the configuration that's expected, your system may be quarantined or set into a private VLAN where you can make changes to bring it up-to-date with the latest configurations. Once those changes are made, you can try logging in again, have the posture assessment complete, and if everything is working properly, you would now have access to the network. When we are past the usable lifetime of a piece of equipment, we often put it in the corner or forget about using it at all, but there may be sensitive information on that device that we need to remove before completing the decommissioning process. This is often associated with a storage drive. So, if you have an SSD, a hard drive, a USB drive, or any other storage device, you may want to remove that or delete all information from that storage drive before decommissioning this equipment. If this decommissioned device has an SSD and you want to use that SSD for another system within your own organization, you can simply move that from one system to another. You may need to format that drive before moving it into another system, but at least you can recycle some of those storage drives. If that storage drive is no longer needed and you feel there might be sensitive information still on that drive, it might be a better idea to simply destroy the drive itself, which would certainly prevent anyone from gaining access to that data.

[[Hardening Techniques]]
If you take a look around your network, your servers, and other devices, you may find opportunities to make those devices just a little bit more secure. And in this video, we'll go through a number of hardening techniques. Let's start with a server. The system hardening refers to the operating system that's running on this server. Operating systems like Windows, Linux, macOS, and others are very different, but there are some best practices to ensure that these operating systems remain secure. One of the first, most significant steps for keeping these systems hardened is to always apply the security updates. These would be updates to the operating system and security patches that are usually included with those. Manufacturers like Microsoft will release these patches every month, and other manufacturers follow a similar schedule. You should also make sure that the user accounts on these systems are well secured. One of the ways to do that is with a password policy. You could set a rule that says that there should be a certain minimum password length, and there should be a certain complexity associated with those passwords. For example, your password should be at least eight characters long, and the password itself should include uppercase characters, lowercase characters, numbers, and special characters. Another good idea is to have limited access for these accounts. Not every account on the system should be an administrator, and each individual user account should only have the rights and permissions necessary for that user to do their job. If you're accessing this device across the network, it's also a good best practice to limit who may have access to this particular system. You might include an IP address range that's permitted to access this server. And if someone tries to access this server from a different IP address, they would be denied access. And of course, it's always good to monitor and secure the system with antivirus, anti-malware, or some other type of endpoint detection. Another good hardening technique is to encrypt any data that you would like to protect on these systems. One way to do this is with the file system itself. You can select individual files or folders and tell the operating system to only encrypt that specific data. This is easily done using things like the Windows encrypting file system or EFS. If you would like to secure the entire drive with operating system, user documents, and anything else that's stored on this system, you might want to use FDE or full disk encryption. This does encrypt everything that is stored on a particular volume, and you can do this with built-in tools like Windows BitLocker or the FileVault utility in macOS. And if you're communicating between devices across the network, you might also encrypt all of your network traffic. This can be done using a virtual private networking option or VPN, and the applications that you're using may have encryption built into those applications already. For example, if you're connecting to other devices from your browser, you're probably using HTTPS on that address bar, and that encrypts all of the data between that browser and the web server. It's common these days for people to have two, three, or even more devices that they might use throughout the day. And we also need to think about how to harden each of these individual user endpoints. We're of course concerned about attacks that may be inbound to any of these devices. There could be someone on the internet trying to access those devices directly. If a device does become infected with malware, it's possible that that malware may try to attack other systems using the user workstation as the starting point. We need to think about the type of security that we might put on a desktop computer, a laptop computer, or even the mobile tablets or mobile phones. All of these are probably running different operating systems, using different applications, and we need to apply the proper security for each individual platform. And of course, there's never one single option or button to push to enable or disable security. You need to use many different types of security tools and utilities, and all of those work together to provide defense-in-depth. It's estimated that there are over 1 million malware variants created every day. To address the scalability problem, the industry is focusing on the next generation of malware detection through an EDR, that stands for endpoint detection and response. EDR can certainly recognize known malware and vulnerabilities based on a signature, but it goes beyond signatures to provide additional security. For example, the EDR could use behavioral analysis, watching what the user does, watching what the applications do, and identifying when something malicious may be occurring, even though it may not have a signature for that particular piece of malware. EDR might also include machine learning for rapid identification of malware and malicious software, and process monitoring can constantly watch all of the processes running on your system, and if a new process suddenly began on your system, EDR can recognize that process and begin monitoring it for any type of malicious activity. EDR also has the ability to go much further than a traditional antivirus or anti-malware application. For example, the EDR itself can perform root cause analysis on the threats that it's seeing. Once EDR recognizes something that could be malicious, it begins performing additional studies on what that particular process might be, and after doing some research, it can make a decision on whether that is something that is malicious or something that should be allowed. And once malicious code is recognized, the EDR itself can immediately take action. You don't need to wait for a technician or help desk ticket to be created. Instead, EDR will isolate the system, quarantine that threat, and even roll back to a previous config to remove that virus from the system. This entire process can be automated through the use of an application programming interface or API, so the EDR can perform all of its functions autonomously and then report all of that information back to a central management console. It's very common these days have a host-based firewall running on your operating system. This is a software-based firewall that runs behind the scenes and it provides a way to allow or disallow certain traffic flows both inbound and outbound from your system. Since the software-based firewall sitting on your operating system itself, it gets to see all of the data before or after encryption has occurred. So, it has complete visibility to what might be going on and it can decide which processes should be allowed to communicate on the network and which processes should be blocked. This is also a great place to monitor for unknown processes that may have been launched because of malware or some type of security vulnerability. And if the host-based firewall sees something unusual, it can be configured to automatically block that traffic until administratively approved by the user. This software-based firewall is running on each individual system, but it can be managed from one central console. It's very common to look for known attack types on the network by running an intrusion prevention system, but there are also host-based intrusion prevention systems that can provide this type of security on each individual device. This is often built into your EDR or your anti-malware software and it watches all of the traffic that is inbound to your system to look for anything that might be unknown vulnerability. The host-based IPS or HIPS can also secure application configurations and operating system configs and it could look for and verify any inbound updates for securing that system. We commonly associate intrusion prevention with looking for some type of malicious action. So, this might be something based on signatures that are stored in the IPS. It might be based on heuristics or behavioral changes. Since the IPS is on the operating system itself, it can extend this visibility into the way the operating system is working. For example, if the host-based IPS recognizes a buffer overflow or registry change or perhaps some files were modified in the core Windows operating system folder, it can send an alert and block that particular process from continuing. Each time you install an outward-facing service on a server or workstation, ports are opened inside of the operating system and those ports can be accessed across the network. Ideally, you should close as many of these ports as possible. Each one of those ports is an opportunity for an attacker to find a vulnerability that would allow them to gain access to that system. This control of open ports can certainly be done on the server or workstation itself. You can also install a firewall to provide this port-based protection. Ideally, you could even use a next-generation firewall to provide much more granularity of not just the port number, but the service that's using that port number. Sometimes these ports are opened without the knowledge of the end user. When you initially install an operating system or you install additional applications onto that operating system, you could be unknowingly opening ports in that system. And there are cases that I've documented that show an application manufacturer saying that you can install this application, but once this application is installed, you need to open port zero through 65,535. This would effectively open every port on that particular server, which would certainly not be the best practice for a secure system. If you see an example like this for software that you're installing, it's not because the software needs to have all of these ports open, but they'd rather not be called if there happens to be an issue communicating across the network to the port number used by the application. And if you're not sure which ports are open and which ports are closed on your system, you can run a scan. Nmap is a great tool for scanning available port numbers on a system, and after a few minutes, it can give you a great deal of information about exactly what ports might be open on an individual system. If you install a router, a switch, a firewall, an access point, or almost any other device, there will be a default configuration screen that allows you to set the settings in that device. These management interfaces might also be found in applications that you've installed on a system, and all of these might contain very sensitive data, and certainly information that would be interesting to an attacker. Normally, when you would first log in to one of these management consoles, it will prompt you to change the password, but not all systems provide that prompt. So, it's important that you manually go into these devices and change the default configuration. The attackers can very easily find what the default settings are for a username and password, and you want to be sure that all of your systems are secured against that type of attack. And in some cases, you can configure multi-factor authentication, or perhaps centralized authentication that synchronizes with all the accounts in your network. Every piece of software that you use on a system has some type of bug inside of it. This may not be a bug that you found yet, but eventually you may find something that is a security vulnerability built into this software. And of course, you may have installed tens or hundreds of different applications on your system, and each one of those applications probably has a different process for performing security updates. This makes it very challenging to keep these applications up to date and secure because you would have to go into every single application with their unique update process to ensure that everything is always running the latest version. Instead, the best practice might be to delete any applications that you're no longer using. This would certainly remove any security concerns, and if you're not using the application anyway, you certainly don't need to have it loaded on that system. This is a relatively easy fix, and it allows you to remove one more application from the list of keeping everything up to date on your system.