[[Identity and Access Management]]
As you know, we use applications on many different systems and in many different locations. We have applications that run on our desktop computers, laptops, and mobile devices. And the data we access can be located anywhere. They could be stored locally on that device. They could be in a data center, or we could store that information in the cloud. We also have many different types of users who need access to various types of data. Company employees access information differently than suppliers, contractors, or even customers. From a security perspective, we must grant the right permissions to the right people at the right time to give them the access they need. We refer to this as identity and access management, or IAM. IAM begins with the process in which a user requests access and ends with the revocation of that user's access. This could be a process that occurs during onboarding and offboarding. There are many intermediate occasions where we need to make changes to these permissions. IAM is responsible for determining access control. So , when someone starts at the company, they may have a list of priorities. They may need access to email, a main application, and the Internet. The authentication and authorization process requires the user to identify themselves in some way, usually with a username, password, or some other authentication factor. And once the user has the access they need, we must log and monitor all access to this data. This is not only a good safety practice, but it may also be regulated and required depending on the organization you work for. This IAM process generally begins with the creation of a user account and usually ends when that account is deactivated. This, of course, commonly occurs during onboarding and offboarding. But this could also change if someone is promoted or moves to a different part of the company. If we analyze the details of the information provided in IAM , we would see that we have a user's name , their attributes, group permissions, and other permissions for application access. This process of provisioning and deprovisioning the user account is the core of IAM and is necessary to ensure that the correct permissions are assigned. This not only assigns the user the appropriate permissions to perform their job, but also limits any kind of continuous and extended access. For example, I wouldn't assign administrator access to every person who joins the organization. One of the main objectives of AM is to ensure that the permissions assigned to a user are those necessary for them to perform their job, without extending permissions beyond that objective. In many organizations, we have mandatory access control where there is a group associated with those rights and permissions. So, if a new user is hired and needs email permissions, they are simply added to the mailing group. Any document that the user creates is private to that user by default. If someone else logs in on that same device , they will not be able to access the files created by the original user. This is an important part of the permissions associated with a user's rights . And, of course, we would limit the user's access to the core operating system on that device. This not only prevents the user from making changes to the operating system, but also prevents third-party applications or malware from making changes to the OS. Another important part of AM is verifying who could be a user. We refer to this as identity verification. There should be a formal process, especially during account creation, to verify that a user is really who they claim to be. This process is known as resolution, and it is an important step to ensure that we do not assign rights and permissions to someone who should not be on this network. It is also important that we can obtain additional validation from the user. This means that the user must provide something only they know, such as a password, and may also need to provide additional information, such as answers to security questions. And, of course, all of this must be verified through a process called attestation. This is one where we need additional details to actually verify that person's identity . Often, this is done by using government documents such as a passport or driver's license, and it could also include an in-person meeting . There are also several automated verification options that could review a user's credit report and ask specific questions about where they may have lived or the type of assets they may have owned . When a user needs to gain access to a resource on the network, they must provide some form of authentication. This usually begins with the client sending information to a central point that can be used for authentication. This could be on a VPN concentrator or when logging into an active directory infrastructure. The user will provide authentication details such as a username and password. And there is usually a centralized authentication server that will be used to validate that information. If that login information is correct, the authentication server will send a notification indicating that those credentials have been approved and the user will be able to access that resource. If you work in a Windows environment, you are probably familiar with single sign-on or SSO. This is the process by which you log in once to the network and, from that moment on, gain access to all the resources you may need, regardless of where they are located. Without SSO, every time you needed to access a new printer or a different shared resource on the network, you would have to provide your username and password each time. This usually works with a timer. So , once you log in for the first time, you may have access to all the resources you need for 24 hours. After that 24- hour period, you would need to provide authentication again for SSO to take effect. This means that your login credentials and the underlying authorization process must be compatible with SSO. A common authentication protocol is LDAP. LDAP stands for Lightweight Directory Access Protocol and is a protocol for accessing large data directories on a network. This is a very standardized protocol. The standard is the X.500 specification. It was drafted by the International Telecommunication Union or the ITU. One of the original versions of this protocol was the Directory Access Protocol or DAP, which worked using the OSI protocol. This was updated to a type of protocol that would work with other operating systems much more efficiently. Therefore, it was renamed as the lightweight directory access protocol. If you ever work with LDAP, you'll see a very standard format for listing what are called distinguished names in X.500. And it begins with an attribute, an equal sign, and the value of that attribute. For example, CN, which stands for common name, refers to an individual device. And, of course, this is built in such a way that it can have a structure within the database. This structure allows you to build a tree where you can organize all the different devices, users, and other components of your network. These container objects could refer to the country where these objects are located , an organization within that country , different organizational units or departments, and even individual devices within that department . We refer to this as the directory information tree. And each of these individual components in the tree is known as a leaf object. Another standard protocol for authentication and authorization is SAML. This is the security assertion markup language. SAML allows the authentication of a user in a third-party database. So instead of maintaining your own user database, you can simply use one that has already been created elsewhere. One of the challenges with SAML, however, is that it was never designed for mobile devices. And of course, these days we use our mobile devices extensively and are often connected from multiple devices at the same time. We'll discuss some other authentication methods in a moment that work a little better when you have multiple devices, especially mobile ones. A basic SAML process involves three different devices. One would be the device you are using. That would be the client device, and you're usually on a browser. You are also trying to gain access to a resource. Is your resource server on the network? And the authentication and authorization process is carried out on a separate authorization server. This process begins on the client where the client wants to access a URL on the resource server. Since this user is not logged in, the resource server sends an encrypted SAML request and redirects it to the authorization server. The user then provides their credentials to gain access to that resource, and the authorization server verifies those credentials, confirms they are correct, and creates a SAML token. The client now has a copy of this token that was generated by the authorization server and now only needs to present the SAML token to the resource server to gain access to the resource and the application they want to use. OAuth is an authentication protocol that was created to work with our most modern and mobile systems . OAuth is an authorization framework, and once you authenticate, OAuth determines what resources a user can access. The OAuth authorization framework was built by some of the largest companies in the industry. Since these companies wanted to provide access to all their users wherever they were and from whatever system they were using, OAuth was the solution. Since OAuth is an authorization framework, there still needs to be something that provides authentication. So you often see OpenID used in conjunction with OAuth to combine both authentication and authorization. Here is an example of an OAuth authorization screen. This is one where we would like to access resources that are located in my Google account and I want to use a third-party application to do so. In this case, the third-party application is Zapier. To provide this access, I visit my Zapier website and tell Zapier that I would like to use resources in my Google account. Zapier then asks me for authorization to access those resources in my Google account, specifically to view, edit, create, and delete anything that is in my Google Drive. Once I click allow, I have created a link between Zapier and my Google account using OAuth. There may be times when you want to log in to a resource, but you don't want to create another account on that particular resource. Instead, you might want to take advantage of federation. The federation allows access to the network without using a local authentication database. This can be done from many third parties who can then use a separate authentication database to log in. You've probably seen a screen like this when logging into a website. Of course, you could use a separate email and password that are local to that site, or you can simply use your Twitter, Facebook, or LinkedIn accounts on this site to authenticate to that third-party site. For this to work correctly, the website must establish some relationship with Twitter, Facebook, and LinkedIn so that this authentication process can occur. But once that link is established, any user visiting the site can use their existing login credentials for those services to access this third-party website. In this video, we've talked about a number of different technologies and a number of different authentication and authorization services. When an organization makes a decision about which technologies to use, it must ensure that they are all interoperable. Sometimes, this interoperability decision is based on the resources available at that time. For example, let's say you're installing a brand new VPN concentrator . And looking at the options available on this VPN concentrator, you can see that it does support access to an LDAP server for authentication. If your company already has an Active Directory server or some other type of LDAP server for authentication, that's a perfect match between what the VPN concentrator needs and the resources you currently have available. Or perhaps you are installing a new application and this application uses OAuth as a form of authorization. This means you will need to include some method to provide authentication through an API or application programming interface so that you can then pass that information to OAuth for use in authorization. These interoperability decisions obviously need to be made with a much broader perspective of what the organization is trying to achieve and what its goals might be for the future.

[[Access Controls]]
Once someone authenticates to a network, we still need to provide them with access to the resources they need to be able to perform their job function. We refer to this as access control, and it's a process of enforcing the policies that would allow or disallow someone access to data. This access control can be associated with an individual or a group of individuals. There's usually a process that defines the policy of what someone may need access to, and then the IT team needs to take that policy and change it into the process required by the operating system to allow or disallow rights to data. There are very broad access control models, and we'll look at those models in this video. There are slight differences between these different types of access controls, and different organizations can choose the access control that's best for them. We'll first start with a security best practice that can be applied across any of these access controls, and that best practice is least privilege. Least privilege means that we will assign rights and permissions to a user that gives them exactly what they need to perform their job. We don't give them additional rights and permissions, and we certainly wouldn't provide them with administrator access. This means by default, every user will have limited privileges to the operating system. If a user does happen to run malicious software, that software would only have the rights and permissions associated with that user, and would hopefully limit the scope of any damage. If you're working in a highly secure area, you may be working with an access control called a mandatory access control. Mandatory access control assigns a label to each resource that someone may need access to. So, a particular file or folder may be tagged as confidential, secret, top secret, or a number of other types of mandatory access control labels. One important aspect of a mandatory access control is that the administrator of the system is the one that defines what type of rights and permissions a user might have. So, a user in the shipping and receiving department may have access to confidential data, but someone who's higher up in the management chain might have access to top secret data. One very common type of access control is a discretionary access control. With a discretionary control model, the user that creates the data has the control on who can access the data and how they can access that information. For example, if you create a spreadsheet, you get to decide who else has access to that spreadsheet, and you can also set different permissions to the users who may have access, where some people can modify the spreadsheet and others might only be read-only. This allows the owner of the data to have complete control on who can access that information. This access control gives the owner of the data a great deal of flexibility when determining who has access to that data. Unfortunately, this also means that this level of access is also less secure because you're relying on each individual user to set the appropriate security controls for every piece of data they create. A more centralized control model would be a role-based access control. This access control is based on your job function. So, if you are a manager, you have a certain type of rights and permissions to data. If you're a director, you have a different set of rights and permissions, and if you're a team lead or project manager, there are different sets of permissions for those roles as well. This starts with the administrator of the system creating a number of different groups. There might be a manager group, a director group, a team lead group, and a project manager group. They would then assign rights and permissions to the group itself, knowing that managers have a certain type of rights and permissions, director have a completely different set, and so on. Once this group is created by the administrator and rights are assigned to the group, the administrator will add users to that group. Each user added to the group receives the rights and permissions associated with that group. So, we don't have to assign specific permissions directly to a user, we can simply add that user to the group and they receive all of those permissions implicitly. In Windows, this is referred to as groups and you can associate a role-based access control to each group. For example, you might have a group for shipping and receiving and you can associate rights and permissions to the shipping software for anyone who might be in that group. You might also have a group for managers of shipping and receiving and managers might have additional access that allows them to view the shipping logs. Some access control methods have a list of rules and those rules are associated with rights and permissions. We refer to this as a rule-based access control because there are a number of system-enforced rules that are created by the system administrator. This means the user does not control any of the rights and permissions or create any of the rules. The administrator is responsible for configuring and assigning all of those permissions. With a rule-based access control, we would first create a rule and then we would associate that rule with a specific object. Each user that accesses that object is then checked in the rule base to see if any of those rules might apply to that individual. For example, there might be a user that needs to access data that's located in a lab, but there is a rule associated with that data that says you can only gain access if the time is between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. And if somebody tries to access the data that's outside of that schedule, that rule would not allow access. Or the rule might be that a form on a webpage can only be filled out by someone using the Chrome browser. This rule-based access control allows an administrator to set any type of criteria and associate that criteria with a specific object. A more modern style of access control is the attribute-based access control. With an attribute-based access control, there are many different criteria that you can use to determine whether someone would have access to data or not. This allows administrators to create very complex rule sets that determine whether certain types of data are accessible or not. You can think of this as a next generation of an authorization model. So, a type of access control that takes into account a number of different criteria, maybe evaluating the IP address of the person making the request, the time of day, the desired action, whether they're writing or reading information, and what relationship they might have to the data. The administrator can combine many different criteria together to determine exactly what type of control someone might have over any object. One type of restriction that can be applied across many of these different control models is a time of day restriction. This means an administrator can allow or disallow access to a certain type of data or resource object based on what time of the day it happens to be. This may not be the only access control method, but it does provide the administrator with options when configuring access to data. Of course, when you're working with the time of day or the day of the week, this can become very complicated if you are a worldwide organization. So, an administrator might include not just the time of day restriction, but what time zone is native for that particular user. So, a good example of some time of day restrictions might be that a training room network is inaccessible between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. Or it may be that conference room access is limited after 8:00 p.m. And if you want to access certain types of data, the R&amp;D databases are only available between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Mhm.

[[Multifactor Authentication]]
when you log into a website it's very common to use a username and password there might be a mobile app that provides a pseudo random code or it may take into account your GPS location we refer to these different types of login parameters as authentication factors and some very common authentication factors might be something you know something you have something you are or somewhere you are although these are very popular authentication factors there are others you could use as well something you know is probably one of the most popular authentication factors because this includes the password that you've memorized obviously your password is made up of a string of characters or a particular phrase and it's something that's only known to you another good example of something you know is a personal identification number if you put your card into an ATM you're commonly asked to provide a four-digit pen this personal identification number isn't written down anywhere so it clearly would be something that only you know and you might have a mobile phone or a tablet that uses some type of pattern to be able to unlock that system this is also referred to as something you know since you're the only one who knows the specific pattern that allows you access to that device another type of authentication factor is something you have for example you might have an ID and that ID is part of a smart card that smart card can be inserted into a device and usually it's used in conjunction with the personal identification number to provide multiple types of authentication another good example of something you have is a USB security key the security key has a certificate on that key that is specific to you so if you plug in that key it's assumed that that must be you because you're the only one with that USB drive you might also have a hardware device that creates a seemingly randomized set of numbers and those numbers are also Al duplicated on the server so when you log in with the username and password you might also be asked to input the number that happens to be on your hardware token there are also software tokens available that you can use on your mobile phone so that you don't have to carry around yet another device and carrying your phone with you also is something you have and it's not uncommon to use SMS or text messages to send a code to your phone that you can use during the login process a type of authentication factor that is personal is something you are this is commonly used with biometric authentication where you're using a fingerprint a voice print or something else that is specific to you as a person this works by storing a mathematical representation of the biometric so a picture of your fingerprint itself is not being stored and compared it's actually a mathematical representation of your fingerprint this is also a very difficult type of authentication factor to change or modify since it's very difficult to change something like a voice print or a fingerprint and usually this type of authentication factor is used in conjunction with other factors at the same time especially since we've seen situations where Biometrics can be circumvented so you may want to include this something you are along with one of the other authentication factors as well our mobile devices are very good at determining our location and we can use that location information as an authentication Factor we call somewhere you are for example if a login is attempted from a country that's different than where you were 10 minutes ago the system may not allow that login to occur because it's checking on somewhere you are we can also get an idea of where someone might be based on their IP address this is not a perfect representation of where someone might be and it becomes much more difficult when we start having much larger addresses such as the ones found with IP version 6 and of course we could use multiple typ types of location services to determine where someone might be we could query their IP address combine that with GPS coordinates to help understand where a person may physically be located and once that geolocation process is complete it can all be used as another authentication factor to allow you to log into the system

[[Password Security]]
when you're choosing a password you often see instructions on creating a password that will be difficult for someone to guess this would prevent an attacker from using some type of password spraying or a Brute Force attack the goal is to create a password with an increased amount of entropy entropy describes how unpredictable a password might be to meet those requirements you don't want to use single words or something that might be obvious ideally you'd create a password that included upper and lowercase letters numbers and special characters all in the same password and you probably seen cases where there is a minimum length of a password ideally you'd want a password that is at least eight characters although we're seeing password requirements increase that number as the processing speeds and capabilities of our systems become that much more efficient in some cases we're encouraged to use a phrase or set of words so that we have a much longer password once a password is set a timer starts that defines the password age this password age is then evaluated after a certain duration to determine whether we would want to change that password for example many passwords will expire in 30 days 60 days 90 days or some other value you've probably seen notifications that remind you that your password is going to expire in a certain number of days and that you'll need to change this password as soon as possible if you don't change the password and the password expires then you won't be able to log in to that account and many systems will remember your password history so you can't reuse a password that you may have used in the past of course these password expirations are determined by the system administrator if this is a critical system you may find that your passwords need to be changed every 15 days or 7 days so that you constantly have a different set of passwords in use the best practice is to use a different password for each account this would prevent somebody from Gaining access to one of your passwords and being able to access many accounts with those same credentials the problem of course is remembering all of these different passwords across all of these different accounts for that reason we may want to take advantage of a password manager a password manager allows you to store all of your passwords in one single database this database obviously contains a great deal of sensitive information so we add additional security to gain access to that database for examp example the password manager itself encrypts all of the information stored in the database and to gain access to the database you may need to provide additional authentication credentials or multiactor tokens many operating systems are including a password manager built into the OS itself and you can download and use many thirdparty password managers as well there are also Solutions available for the Enterprise so you can have every employee in your organization taking advantage of using a secure password manager once you log into your password manager you have full access to all of the save passwords and you can get a summary of how healthy those passwords might be this might give you some feedback on whether a password may have been compromised or whether you need to make passwords a bit more secure I like the feature in my password manager that allows me to generate new passwords automatically with a random amount of data and to automatically add those to the form that I'm filling in this allows me to easily create unique passwords for every site that I use unfortunately many people don't take advantage of password managers or they tend to reuse passwords across different sites this makes it very easy for an attacker to gain access to a user's data because of this many systems have moved to a passwordless method of authentication where you would not use a password to log into a system this would certainly solve the problem of password reuse and you don't have to remember a password to log into a system you might already be using passwordless Authentication if you have a mobile phone and you unlock that phone with a face recognition you didn't have to put in any password to gain access to that system and when I log into Windows I use a personal identification number instead of using a password in all of these cases the passwordless authentication is often used in conjunction with a password or some other type of authentication Factor this means that we may need to use our password initially but from that point forward we can use the passwordless Authentication the use of passwords becomes much more complex in an environment where you have many people logging into many different systems as we do in many it departments so instead of using single passwords that are assigned to an individual user we use just in time permissions this allows a technician to receive administrative access for a limited amount of time using a set of credentials that is also temporary this solves the problem of a technician needing administrator rights but not having those rights normally associated with their login this allows the technician to use those administrator rights to solve a particular problem or fix an issue and then those rights will time out normally this means if an attacker does manage to breach an individual user's account they would not have administrator access to the systems to start this process of just in time permissions the user would request permission from a central Clearing House this Clearing House is responsible for allowing or not allowing access based on a set of security policies that were previously configured that Central Clearing House or password Vault contains primary credentials that would allow someone access to a system but instead of handing out those primary credentials the vault is going to set different controls for each individual user the just in time process is going to create a new set of credentials based on those primary credentials those new credentials will be assigned to a user and they're assigned on an ephemeral basis which means they will only be temporarily assigned this means your primary credentials will never be shown to anyone else and once the technician uses those temporary credentials they can then be deleted after that session is complete